[Music]
hey are you thinking about watching the
new Deadpool movie but you've forgotten
what happened in all the other x-men
films well no problem here's a quick
catch up these films are big-budget
blockbuster examinations of racism and
homophobia in America mutant and proud
but sometimes the stories veer a little
too close to being a soap opera
the first film opens in a world war ii
concentration camp when this kid freaks
out and bends metal with his mind his
name is Eric but he'll grow up to be the
villain Magneto
years later in Washington a geneticist
named Jean Grey is speaking against
mutant registration while the senator
stirs up a lot of ante mutant bigotry
kind of like the Red Scare there's even
a list of names that symbolic elsewhere
there's a girl named rogue who finds out
she's a mutant by accidentally absorbing
a boy's memories after kissing him rogue
is unable to touch anyone without
absorbing their memories and powers she
runs away and meets a cage fighter named
Logan also nicknamed Wolverine he has
amnesia but can't give himself any
memento tattoos because his mutant
healing factor would erase them he also
has a metal skeleton heightened senses
and badass claws he and rogue are
ambushed by a mutant named Sabretooth
who has a lot of the same powers as
Wolverine and it's implied they have a
backstory learn about that later on how
you betcha a couple good guys bring them
to a special mutant school where Jean
Grey works the school is run by Charles
Xavier who can read to control people's
minds and dreams of living in peace with
humans he used to be friends with
magneto who now thinks that humans
should be subjugated by mutants magneto
leads a group called the Brotherhood of
mutants who include Sabretooth totu
mystique back at the school wolverine
wakes up and meets the mutant teachers
there who are also the x-men a global
strike force with an underground bunker
a secret jet and uniforms that look like
body condoms wolverine flirts with Jean
Grey hates her boyfriend Scott and
there's also Halle Berry storm who can
control the weather
rogue joins the school and makes nice
with a boy named Bobby who controls ice
meanwhile Magneto's evil plan is to use
his powers to turn all the world's
leaders into mutants while they're all
visiting the Statue of Liberty and also
hey hear Stanley's first cameo
anyways rogue runs away from the school
and they catch up to her at a train
station but magneto and his goons are
there too and they beat up the x-men and
take rogue because actually magneto
needed rogue to implement his evil plan
they all put on their condom suits and
go after magneto storm fight stowed and
unleashes this zinger you know what
happens to a toad when it's struck by
lightning
to everything which was actually written
by Joss Whedon who also wrote the
blockbusters Justice League in Alien
Resurrection Wolverine fights mystique
while she poses a bunch of times then he
fights Sabretooth and saves the day
afterwards Logan hits the road to look
for answers to his past Magneto's in a
plastic prison and mystique is
impersonating a senator next there's ex
to x-men United it's a high-water mark
for the franchise i teleporting mutant
named Nightcrawler attacks the president
in the Oval Office so General William
Stryker gets permission to attack Xavier
school Logan hits dead ends in his
search for his past so he returns to
babysit while Scott and the professor go
visit magneto and Jean and storm search
for Nightcrawler
it turns out he's a former circus
performer who was mind-controlled by
Stryker into attacking the president
Stryker attacks the school and the kids
are helped by Colossus a big guy who
turns into metal Wolverine straight up
murders a bunch of guys while the
military round up most of the kids it
turns out that Stryker knows Logan but
Logan has no memory of him they escaped
with rogue Iceman and a cocky young
mutant named pyro
they go to ice man's house where he
comes out to his parents as being a
mutant is that symbolic pyro attacks
some cops until gene storm and
Nightcrawler interfere and while all
this is happening Stryker kidnaps Scott
and Xavier Stryker uses his son's mutant
ability to control people's minds
including the professor's mystique
breaks magneto out of jail and they save
the x-men from a plane crash now the
good guys have to team up with the bad
guys to stop the greatest threat of all
the bigotry inside the human heart
mystique and Nightcrawler have this
badass interaction they say you can
imitate anybody and very not stay in
disguise all the time we shouldn't have
to symbolism Jean and Logan make out for
a minute but she confirms that she
really loves Scott
they figure out that strikers plan is to
use Xavier and a duplicate of cerebro to
kill every mutant in the world they
track him down to the same base Logan
searched earlier but this time they
think to look underground look in the
basement next time look in the basement
next time they infiltrate the base but
Logan goes off to find the chamber where
Stryker laced his skeleton with
adamantium
he fights Lady Deathstrike whose claws
are slightly smaller than cardi B's and
wins by filling her up with metal is
that symbolic they rescue the kids and
Scott his mind-control into fighting
Jean but then there's flames in her eyes
and she undoes the brainwashing so
what's that about well wait and see also
you can actually see the team's
earpieces in this movie unlike in the
Avengers magneto shuts down cerebro but
then turns heel and uses the machine
against humans the x-men save the
professor pyro joins Magneto and Jean
sacrifices her life to save everyone the
movie ends with the flaming outline of a
bird under the water so what's that
about well next up is x-men 3 The Last
Stand which I can't believe I'm saying
this is not as bad as I remember
rewind to a flashbacks with young
Charles and magneto meeting a young Jean
Grey and teaching her to use her powers
and let's give a shout out to Wetty
because this is a great job de-aging
these guys fantastic work proud of you
now fast-forward again to another
flashback to 10 years ago of a wealthy
boy named Warren Worthington who's
growing angel wings like in the movie
Teen Wolf the manifestation of mutants
power serve as a metaphor for puberty
during the training exercise we get a
fastball special and meet Ellen Page a
Shadowcat who phased us through walls
and rogue is jealous and she thinks that
Bobby likes Shadowcat more because they
can actually touch and she's probably
right meanwhile at the government
there's a department of mutant Affairs
now where we meet Hank McCoy the Beast
old friend of the x-men and current
cabinet secretary Scott is really sad
about genes deaths of Professor X one
storm to take over someday and because
Halle Berry was a much more bankable
star than James Marsden Scott goes back
to the place where Jean died to scream
at the water but then she comes back to
life how telekinetic cocoon but she's
evil now and kill Scott with kisses
it turns out that gene is the most
powerful mutant ever but had an
alternate personality called the Phoenix
that was so evil the professor created
mental blocks to keep it in check
meanwhile beast tells the x-men that
Worthington's company has made a drug
that cures mutant powers and rogue is
all like I would kiss my boyfriend now
warns dad wants to try the mutant cure
out on him but he refuses and flies away
in an underground blade club mutants
argue about the cure and Magneto
recruits a load of him to join his
Brotherhood the Brotherhood breaks
mystique and a few other mutants out of
jail including the juggernaut oh the
jungle but the cops shoot mystique with
the cure and now magneto is like humans
gross but really when she's normal she
still gets to look like Rebecca romaine
so that's not a bad life gene wakes up
and now she's all hot for Logan which is
super because she just killed her fiance
about ten minutes ago her evil side
takes over in Charles and Magneto both
tried to recruit her but she joins
Magneto's team and pops the professor
like a balloon afterward storm becomes
leader of the x-men warren and roles in
the school and rogue runs off to get
cured Magneto's army attacks Alcatraz
and oh man the Golden Gate Bridge has no
luck in movies the x-men show up and
there's a big fight while Jean stands on
a hill and doesn't attack for literally
no reason
Warren saves his dad while beast and
Logan pump the Cure into magneto turning
him into a human which is a nice
reversal of the first movie when he
tried to turn humans into mutants
but Gina still like mad evil and she
pills the flesh off Wolverines bones and
he's forced to kill her
rogue loses her powers magneto kind of
gets his powers back
and and Marvel's first post-credit scene
Professor X transfers his mind into his
comatose twin brothers brain dead body
next up we're gonna rewind to the Year
1845 where two boys named James and
Victor lived on a large estate James is
wealthy and Victor's the son of the
groundskeeper who then kills James his
dad James grows bone claws kills him
right back and finds out that the
groundskeeper was his real dad and
Victor as his half-brother
and they run away together and then we
get an incredibly kick-ass montage where
these two super-powered immortals fight
a hundred years worth of wars and
Vietnam victor takes out a superior
officer they survive a firing squad and
are recruited by young William Stryker
who's putting together a special team of
mutants one of them is a mouthy sword
voting assassin called Wade Wilson
Logan eventually walks away from killing
fast-forward six years later and he's
working as a lumberjack he's also living
with a nice woman who I bet lives a
really long life never mind Victor
killed her Stryker shows up and says I
can make you indestructible then he
pumps Logan full of adamantium and a
scene that looks a lot like David
Fincher directed the First Avenger he
freaks out meets a nice farm couple they
die and his claws look about as
realistic as the singing sword from
Roger Rabbit Logan goes around meeting a
bunch of different mutants and saying
things like oh hey Bob what's up gambit
bikes Buddy Holly and Stryker kidnaps
all of these potential spin-offs for
experiments Logan finds out that Victor
was actually working for Stryker all
along and so was his girlfriend and she
never actually loved him
then Wade the funny charming handsome
mutant from earlier comes back as this
guy and Stryker calls him Deadpool
because he's a pool of dead people's
powers that's terrible
Logan fights Deadpool really boring yes
it is and everyone is saved striker
shoots Logan in the head with an
adamantium bullets so now he has amnesia
the kids are freed and they meet young
Charles like oh my god who did this who
did this affect hydraulics no this is
why you only hire quality people like
Wetty now let's rewind again back to
young magneto bending metal in the
concentration camp a mutant Nazi named
Sebastian Shaw
teaches a little magneto to use his
powers through anger meanwhile in
Westchester young Charles Xavier meet
young mystique and they grew up to be
the best of friends fast-forward to the
1960s and Charles is now reading girls
Minds to get them into bed he's soon
contacted by Moira MacTaggert a CIA
agent who wants to stop the Hellfire
Club a group of Evil Mutants who are led
by Sebastian Shaw Shaw wants to start a
nuclear war because evil meanwhile
magneto is travelling around the world
and hunting down Nazis he finds Shaw
gets his ass kicked but Charles and the
others show up to save him now the whole
group joined the CIA's mutant division
where the Beast works but he has kept
his mutation a secret didn't ask so I
didn't tell is that symbolic magneto and
Charles form a reluctant friendship and
they recruit mutants using cerebro
everyone then goes to Charles
Westchester house and learns to use
their powers magneto a mystique hookup
and Hanks experiments on himself
backfire the x-men stopped the Cuban
Missile Crisis magneto kill Shaw but
then goes heal and turns the missiles on
the humans classic magneto Charles stops
him but takes a bullet in the spine
magneto leaves with mystique and a few
other followers later Charles he races
Moira's memory with a super kiss stolen
from Superman - yes alright let's rewind
again to the end of World War two where
Wolverine is a prisoner of war in Japan
as the atomic bomb goes off he saves the
life of a Japanese soldier named Yoshida
fast forward to present day and he's
having night terrors after killing Jean
he gets pissed at some Hicks for killing
his favorite bear and a young woman
shows up to bring him back to Japan
she's a mutant named Yukio and her power
is to see how people will die she works
for the same soldier whose life Logan's
saved but now he's the most powerful
businessman in Japan the old man offers
to take away Logan's curse of
immortality and use it for himself
Logan turns him down but still loses his
powers in the tradition of great
superhero sequels like spider-man 2 and
Superman 2 the next day you
Cheeta is dead foul play isn't suspected
but it sure looks like this lady doctor
viper is up to something mostly because
her name is doctor Viper and there's a
lot going on here with a conspiracy
involving the government the Yakuza
ninjas yashida's disinherited son and
everyone is trying to kill his
granddaughter Mariko logan goes on the
run with Mariko and eventually the two
fall for one another and the next
morning Logan is able to bust out those
Lumberjacks kills Yukio comes back
because she saw a vision of Logan's
death
Mariko is kidnapped and Logan destroys a
robot that was on his heart sucking away
his powers they track Mariko to the
ninja compound shout-out to Kurosawa
throne of blood where dr. Viper is
building an adamantium armor with the
old man Yashida inside it turns out he
wasn't really dead and he was actually
behind everything along what he tries to
steal Logan's powers cuts off his claws
but his granddaughter stabs him in the
head
Logan used to view his power as accursed
but now he sees it as an opportunity to
be a champion for life fast forward a
couple years in Wolverine encounters
Magneto and the professor at an airport
and they're all like oh we need your
help man so fast-forward again by a
decade or so to the future when mutants
are being hunted down by robots called
the Sentinels Xavier and Magneto lead a
band of survivors including Wolverine
and other people you'll recognize from
the first three movies they work up a
plan to send Wolverines consciousness
back into the past to stop the dystopia
from happening back in the 1970s the
inventor of the Sentinels Bolivar Trask
who used to look like this but now looks
like this was assassinated by mystique
and they used her DNA to make these
killer robots
so rewind to the 1970s when Logan shows
up at the x-mansion but instead of
teaching kids Professor X is dressed
like Eric Stoltz from pulp fiction and
injecting himself with the drug that
dampens his powers and helps him walk
mystique is in Vietnam saving mutants
from being sent to Trask at a young
William Stryker who used to look like
this and now looks like this Toth is
there remember him they need Magneto's
help to find mystique and said they
recruit a mutant with SuperSpeed named
Quicksilver to break him out of jail in
what has to be the best seen in any
x-men film magneto and Charles still
aren't cool with each other they stop
mystique but magneto heel turns classic
magneto and the dystopian future is
still happening Trask convinces Nixon to
make sentinels which magneto uses to
attack the president at the White House
mystique stops the assassination
prevents the dystopian future Logan
wakes up and Xavier's school to find the
Scott and Jean are alive so nothing in
the last stand ever happens to forget
that and Logan is fished out of the
river by Stryker so I guess he wasn't in
Vietnam
didn't become a lumberjack and see his
fake girlfriend killed none of that
happened either wait did any of this
stuff happen any of it from any of these
movies I guess everything from now on is
part of an alternate reality
so now let's rewind again to ancient
Egypt which is ruled by an immortal
power stealing mutant named apocalypse
while trying to take on a new body he's
attacked and ends up being buried for a
few thousand years until fast forward to
1983 when he's unearthed by Moira
MacTaggert now he looks like a Power
Rangers villain and begins recruiting
mutants to be his Four Horsemen
including storms Psylocke and Warren
Worthington
even though Warren was this exact same
age 20 years later in another movie an
alternate reality magneto lives a quiet
life with his family in the woods don't
worry nothing bad happens to them and he
doesn't have a role in this film at all
just kidding humans kill them and he
retaliates by killing a bunch of dude
and he's recruited by apocalypse
Moira reconnects with Charles and fills
him in on who apocalypse is mystique
saves Nightcrawler from an underground
fighting Club and brings him to Xavier's
school and I know that earlier in the
future they met for the first time but
an alternate reality meanwhile a young
Scott Summers powers manifest and his
brother Alex takes him to Xavier's
school and no one has aged at all in the
past 20 years Scott meet Jean Grey they
sneak off to the mall and come back just
as the school is exploding Quicksilver
saves everyone but apocalypse kidnaps
Charles and Stryker shows up to start
grabbing mutant kids because that's what
strikers do these plucky mutant teens
stowaway to strikers facility from all
the other movies they free the kids stop
Stryker and release Wolverine apocalypse
has a big dumb evil plan to end the
world that also makes the professor go
bald the x-men stop him with a little
help from Jean grace Phoenix side and
Magneto decides not to kill billions of
people because mystique asked him not to
the x-men rebuild the school with help
from Magneto you know that mass murderer
from earlier in the movie and director
Bryan Singer ends his last x-men film
the way he ended his first x-men film I
feel a great swell of pity for the
course so after the rascal
there's a post-credits scene where the
government steals Wolverines blood which
leads directly into Logan fast forward
to about the Year 2027 which is no
longer the matrix type dystopia we saw
before but more like a sad Cormac
McCarthy esque dystopia where mutants
are slowly dying out Logan is now a cab
driver in a slowly being poisoned by his
adamantium skeleton he's looking after
Charles who takes drugs to suppress his
dementia and seizures a lady pays Logan
to smuggle a little girl named Laura
it's a Canada and it turns out that
Laura's a mutant - taken from a hospital
where she and other kids were
genetically created from the DNA of the
x-men the military shows up and everyone
sees that laura has Wolverines powers
making her his daughter the paramilitary
guys attack and Charles Laura and Logan
go on the run they end up staying in a
family farm and just like Logan did all
those years ago an alternate reality
unfortunately it ends up the same way
it's revealed that Charles psychic
seizures killed his students and then
he's murdered by a savage clone of young
Wolverine who symbolizes the hero
struggle with the demons of his past the
villains are led by a bad guy named
Xander rice years ago he introduced the
chemical into corn syrup to suppress
mutations so he would have sole control
of all the world's mutants and sidebar
Rice's dad was killed when Logan first
escaped alkali lake bringing the
franchise full circle and playing off
the concept of original sin
Logan brings laurits the other young
mutants and they give him a drug to help
amplify his powers to temporarily make
him savage enough to help them get away
Logan dies defending Laura echoing this
prophecy holding your own heart in your
hand and what a fitting end to the x-men
franchise for screen crush I'm Ryan Arry
post-credits finally we have Deadpool we
originally met him in 1975 and now it's
modern-day and he's the same age but
remember we are in an alternate reality
Wade Wilson is a badass assassin who
falls in love with a woman named Vanessa
[Music]
everything is great until he gets
terminal cancer he volunteers for an
experiment run by a guy named Francis
who loves to torture wait
afterwards wait is basically invincible
but he looks like a slightly more
attractive Randy Johnson so he doesn't
want Vanessa to see him he hunts down
Francis to undo the procedure he lives
with the lady named blind owl and his
friend weasel gives him a superhero name
from a fighting tournament called the
Deadpool at his bar on the way to catch
up with Francis Deadpool meets dopinder
who has a convoluted backstory straight
from a Bollywood film involving his
wicked cousin kidnapping his true love
anyways Deadpool almost kills Francis
but Colossus and another x-man named
negasonic teenage warhead stopped him oh
and Colossus has a Russian accent now
Francis kidnaps Vanessa Deadpool kills
Francis and Vanessa doesn't mind his
ugly face in the x-men franchise is
reborn until Marvel regains the rights
and all of this is erased and we get to
start all over for a screen crush
I'm Ryan Arry
[Music]